hello friends welcome to this video in
this video we are going to discuss how
to evaluate expressions especially in
to convert a in fix expression to
postfix expression first of all what is
meant by expression an expression is
defined as the combination of operands
and operators they are arranging as per
the syntax of language there are three
types of expressions they are prefix in
fix and postfix what is meant by prefix
expression the operator symbol will be
in front of two operands and when we
come to in fix the operator symbol will
be in between two operands and in
postfix expression the operator symbols
will be after the operands so let us
know the algorithm for converting an
infix expression to perfect expression
so what's the algorithm is first of all
we have to initialize an empty stack
after initializing empty stack push an
open paranthesis in to stack scan the in
fix string from left to right until the
end of the in fix expression so instead
of reading this algorithm if we can do
it with an example it will be a little
bit easy for all of you to understand
how to evaluate so here is our example
let us consider this this is an infix
expression with a b c d or operands and
star place and again a stick star is or
operators so let us watch what's the
first step in algorithm first of all
initialize and empty stack we have
already done this heavens related and
empty stack this is all
dystek so let us see what's the second
step in the algorithm the second step
often is learning empty empty stack push
an open pair on this into stack so now
let us push an open paranthesis symbol
into stack we are going to write all the
symbols which are read from the example
here so let us push a open Aransas into
the stack here we open paranthesis is
pushing into the stack and the in fix
expression will be remain same sorry
yeah this postfix expression so after
pushing an open Terrance's what we have
to do scan the in fixed string from left
to right until the end of ethics
expression so let us scan the infix
expression the first element of ins in
fix expression is a so let us write a
here the stack will remain same so what
what we have to do off the scanning if
the character is open Terrence's push
into the stack but we have scanned an
operand so this can character is an
operand then push it into postfix
expression so let us push a into post
fix expression stack will remain same
with an open branches so let us see
what's the second element here a strict
symbol is the second element here so let
us write this as click symbol in token
column so what is a stick it is an
operator but not an opening so let us
see what if an operator is scanned so if
the standard character is an operator
then compare the precedence of operators
with the operator on the top of the
stack but on the top of the stack we
don't have any operators except open
balances so there is no problem we can
directly push this astrick symbol into
stack so the stack will be have an open
branches before of estrogen a postfix
expression will remain same so let's
scan the third element what's the third
element here open parenthesis or third
element in this fix expression so if it
is and advances we have to push the
appearances into the stack so what will
be this track we have two previous
elements in open balances and has click
symbol and again we have an open
paranthesis the postfix expression will
remain same so let us see what's the
next element the next scan it character
is B so the B is an operand so we have
to push that B into postfix expression
so the postfix expression will be a B
the stack will remains same with orbit
open branches multiplication operator
and open finances so what's the next
element in the infix expression after B
we have plus operator ultimate edition
so plus operator the scanner character
is operator we have to push the operator
into stack you check the president's of
top element here top element is local
branches so no problem we can directly
push that plus operator into stack so
after pushing the postfix expression
will be remain same oh please watch the
next character the next character is C
see is an operon
so we have to push if the scanner
character is operator we have to push
that into stack and if the scanned
character is up then we have pushed that
into four six columns or the first
column will be ABC and the stack will
remain same with open pair on this
multiplication over addition
so after C we have a closed parenthesis
so what if a closed parenthesis is
scanned let us see the scanner character
is closure Terrance's and pop the
elements from stack up to encountering
the open Terrance's and we have added
pop elements to postfix expression
except parentheses so here the scanner
character is those appearances so from
school closure parent is to first open
bracket we have only plus symbol so we
have to add that plus symbol to postfix
expression except the parent so what's
the stack will be that will be open
paranthesis under stop these close
appearances and open paranthesis will be
removed from the stack so let us see
what's in the next element in the fix
expression the next element is star
since we have R here and we have another
star here
operators of same distance so we are
going to remove the existing star here
and pushing it into postfix expression
and adding the new operator into stack
so the first fixed expression will
be see bless so here - tak will be open
for dances under decently standard as
fixing them so what's the next here
there is the which is the next element
in in fixed rain Saudi we know that D is
an operand so we are going to push the
into post fixes king so the first fish
train will be ABC plus up and this
English cannot be the spec will be
remain same let us check for the next
element in fix expression
oh the next element is completed they
have not pink to scan from this peg no
sorry
in fix expression o see the last step
after completely reading the infix
expression push a closing parenthesis
into the stack so now we have to push a
closing parenthesis into the stack so
what if a closing parenthesis pushed the
operators in between open transition
closing balances will be removed from
the stack and added to postfix
expression so we are going to add the
multiplication symbol except open
paranthesis and closed parenthesis into
postfix expression so the poster
situation will be ABC plus star D and
star symbol so here we got answer he pea
puree so final expression final post
fix expression equal to ABC plus of the
star so this is the way to convert a ill
fix expression into a postfix expression
Thank You friends thank you for watching
this video my next videos I will try to
explain another most important and
interesting concepts goodbye